#summary Short summary of changes for the current build of Fragmentation Analyzer. (Note that this may not be the same as the released version.)

----

 * NEW FEATURE: Tooltips have been added to both mass error plot types. 
 * NEW FEATURE: Instrument or fragment ion type can now be selected as the data point label when plotting the mass error.
 * NEW FEATURE: It is now possible to add markers highlighting the different fragment ion types to the mass error plots.
 * NEW FEATURE: Average fragment ion mass errors can now be plotted.
 * NEW FEATURE: Added `Select All` options to the instrument and terminals drop down menus.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: The highlight markers can now be turned on and off.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Made it possible to turn the legends on/off.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Increased the number of simultaneously visible elements in the drop down menus.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Peptide sequence is now included in title of mass error plots when only one sequence is analyzed and "combine" is selected.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: The peptide sequence is now included in the title for "combine type plots" if all have rows contain the same modified peptide sequence.
 * FEATURE IMPROVMENT: Added dividers to the internal frame popup menu.
 * BUG FIX: Instrument 2 and 3 are now reset if the instrument 1 is set to "- Select -". Same for instrument 3 when instrument 2 is set to "- Select -". Same fix also added for the modifications.
 * BUG FIX: Update visible series selection did not update the last added plot.